My own test report trying to do the story

First I clear the scene sing menu -> clear scene (and it's important because I am going to run into a bug that does not happen if I wipe out the demo manually).
- reservoir valves are the wrong color.
reservoir stubs are not aligned with the well, need redesigning
need specific icon for the stroy
Config well lacks physical units What am I specifying?
450K, 15 bar, cv 50, opening 10%, h2o 0.6, Ch4 0.3, H2 0.1
tooltip palette styling too similar to palette
it's 13h, i have not solved yet?
420 kg/h, much too much
cv to 10, opening 10, 84 kg.h, sdtill too much
cv 1 opening 50 42, starts to be better, still too much
cv 0.3, opening 50 = 12 kg/h, better
I'm thinking I need to get water, but the sink already produces some, here it is! I might not understand what I need to do more.
Get water into a tank, ok, more clear
the open tank initializes with level showing half full, that's wrong
In remember that my testers struggle with stream delete, and I need to do it all the time.
I fired my tank. I reset and found no clue of what got wrong. I started again with the failure, had to continue with failure to understand the cause (already covered)
I put a air cooler. I would have expected the air cooler to have a cold color. I feel like I'm about to heat up my stream
It fails. I forgot to plug the electricity. It just said I have fried my tank again. It did not say anything about unconnected air cooler. Frustration grows.
Ananlysis when defrying my tank shows still too high temperature. My air cooler does not seem to work. Click on it.
I can see a warning message first, it's clear.
I might struggle finding a power source, and I don't think it's my job at this stage. A power source should be there from the start, and maybe a dispatcher system, since I might not know I need it if I don't see it working.
Resolved to add a power hub from the start, a solar panel and a battery. I notice that I have no information about light or wind, or anything relative to wind turbine or light. I can only assume the background gives me an indication.
I plug the things, but the arrows turn orange. Do I do something wrong? Try to solve anyways
Everything fails again. Frustration keeps growing, I would want something to work at this point. I put a tank, I cool it, what do I do wrong? I start hating the pop up catastrophic.
The air cooler is destroyed and gives me NO indication apart from the fact it is destroyed and bypassed. All electrical flows seem off, I don't understand why. I'd close the game here.
I genuinely don't understand here, not even as a layer. I try adding surplus
The clear fry on the cooler does not work, and the unit starts showing buggy behaviour, sometimes showing the inspector on click, sometimes not.
Resolved to delete and replace the equipment. 
Checking equipment limits, this should be allright. Wait, I use the new dispatcher, let me use the multi one, maybe it's a dispatcher bug.
Still frying the equipment with the "old" hub.
Try with a new air cooler, fresh
I struggle to find it in the palette, I expect blue.
Same result. Uber frustrated. Should come from the solar panel, t's the only non-battle tested unit. Let me try with a simple generator instead of the combo solar panel-battery.
When unconnected to the hub, I can unfry the air cooler. Good.
I use the unit filters, the full list is just overwhelming. Not super bad, ut too much for a quick glance
Wow, unfrying the open tank immediately fries the air cooler?
OK, disconnect air cooler form hub, defry. I have really not plaid much and got into forced debugging here... Not having a lot of fun.
Try again
Same. I'm fed up. This thing is not working.

After session thoughts:
I realize I don't need the catastrophic popup. And I don't want to go back in time. I'd rather see my equipment fail in an obvious way (no "did something happen here"?) Very visible, yet not a wall. The I restore it, try again. I would appreciate it if all my tests and failures were not wasting an hour everytime. On the other hand it puts real pressure too. The toast thing is not bad here, it would help without intruding. It should really help though, with a proper signle diagnosis, and nnot a unit list which I'm perfectly capable to see myself. I CAN SEE MY UNITS ARE FRIED! ;-) WHY?
Now we just have a fried icon, very clear, but says nothing. We should have a condensed form of the diagnostic straight in there! Maybe icons showing the issue, that should be feasible, we constraint on limited parameters, plus all the electrical failures.
I think the failure is related to the creation of a new file, which we have almost never tested, always working from the default demo and modifying it


Test 2 - I try to manually wipe out the demo. and start from there. I'll keep the hub powering the life support section of the flowsheet. I'll reimport because I already spent a few frames, and I want to test at frame 0.
click menu -> load scene -> demo v1
delete all but hub, dump load and generator
Place a well. I notice the wrong valve color. My previous composition presets are still there, I'm surprised, I would have expected defaults to be reapplied. CV and opening have reinitialised. I'm surprised, but happy with not having to type compo again.
Cv 0.3, opening 50, let's go. PLugging to a sink, spend 1 frame to see if works. That shopuld correspond roughly to the starting situation.
I was used to sink, I struggle findign material dump. It's clearer, but the word was more simple before.
I connect without difficulty
I see particles and smoke and water, I'm happy, it seems to work.
I'm gonna be careful this time and work with the sink before I put the tank in. Do not want the failure popup again, I'm gonna check that it works first
Adding air cooler. I see particles coming in, I'm surprised but this makes sense, they are there.
Plug into the power supply, I might have forgotten again.
Spend a frame, see particles on the other side, it works!
Click on stream to see if it cools. No clear visual feedback if it actually work. I see a little green light next to the air cooler, but not sure if it means this works.
Inspecting the air cooler, I'm overwhelmed with parameters. I don't want to look at all of that, I understand nothing. I click on stream, I'm confused.
Says 25C at the top. All I really wanted to know. Even in streams, it's a little buried with things I don't care nor understand. Molar flow. Vapor fraction. Y(H2O), these tell nothing to me at all.
I click on the sink. It shows a warning message while I think everything is allright, why does it bother me?
I see layout and I don't know what it is. It says default, it's just like saying nothing. I see tin, Pin, Tou, Pout and I'm confused again. It has only an in? Why 2 sets of conditions? 0.897 does not evoke atmospheric pressure to me. It says absorbed, what does it mean? It's an absorber? Apparently there is an expansion, but what is this thing? A turbine?
K, anyways, I don't care about this. Ultimately, I won't be able to delete it as it is a fixed element. I'll just delete the link and replace with a tank, everything should work fine and dandy, right?
Reroute to the tank. Re-routing is cool and natural, iunlike deleting.
Tank says half full - do I get free water? Why am I even struggling then?
Hit step. I have still not seen a single animation in this game. I might have pressed play instead everytime. Where would I be in terms of time then? I'll use play for now. Worth noting that a player using steps is not even aware that the game has animations. Maybe a step event should trigger a cycle of aniimation as feedback. And the breaking would happen after this round of animation, establishing the relationship more clearly between "this operating mode destroyed your process". Now it feels like "these settings destroyed your process". That's less fun
I click on the reservboir and it says 0.0% full. What the hell? Did I not just connect it? Where is my hard won water? Let's press play and see if this buggy game gets it then.
First I have a warning on the tank that I'm venting. I don't even know if I'm venting or what it is... Do I do something wrong (we really miss an information level messaging, showing green)
Then catastrophic event on the air cooler, what the hell? Everything was running, what happens again with this bloody unreliable air cooler?
Still says nothing useful, "equipment destroyed, bypass". Seems like before. But it ran before! I don't get it. Let me reconnect to the sink, de-fry, try again.
Buggy click/inspector behaviour of the air cooler again. Sometimes clicking on it just does not show the inspector. Does not want to reset. OK, I have the same bug as session 1 actually, but why now? It has run befroe. Maybe I can try restroing and see
Restroing day 1, 17h. The tank is plugged. re-routing to sink safe config
AIr cooler fried again.?
Reset to initial conditions. I get the original demo back.
OK, really can't play this, well broken. Big frustration. I managed to do this yesterday in the testing session with my friend? It's dead simple, and the demo V1 uses all these components, and it runs fine. What the hell is happening here? Big, big frustration.
