I had a tester and I noticed that he expected that units would auto-insert when dragged on an existing connection, he expected pipes to be draggable click-release, rather than click and click again on port to reconnect. He struggled deleting a stream, he took it and tried to get rid of it without success. He got very confused with the ports of the power hub and plugged equipment to power into the overflow port. The most problematic was the catastrophic system. The pop-up indicated a problem, but what to do next was really not clear. No clear button to push on, no cause diagnostic. We actually had to continue with error only to see the diagnostic and understand the issue. It should have been diagnosed in the pop-up directly I believe. He did not clearly see the limits of the equipment, and found the choice a little confusing, yet he started reading the tooltip. I tried to reporduce the first mission and ask him to do it (condense water from the vent). I placed the vent, set 400K and 15 bar. I did not touch the CV not opening. When stated that he should get water, he routed the outlet directly into an open tank (which he found himself). The open tank failed becasue of heat. I had to help there becasue it was not clear what to do, I accepted the error and checked the error on the tank, it was temeprature of course. The he browsed the units and figured out he should put an air cooler, great! He got confused with the inspector, so he did not really look at the values, he found that overwhelming. He placed an air cooler, did not touch any params. He figured out from the port that it needs something to run, but said it was not obvious that it was electricity, the icon was too small. He struggled finding the appropriate unit to power things, and I had to point him to grid supply. He said he had no clue what a flash drum was, while he naturally figured out the cooler and the open tank (wording really matters!). We could not cool the stream enough. He tried a second one in-line, and still we were not reaching below 160°C. At that point he told me he would have already shut down the game if it was for real. I then figured out that I needed to put 10% opening on the reservoir and everything started working fine. I learnt that dimensioning is very important otherwise it becomes a boring and discouraging sizing exercise. If the palette had been limited, it would have been easier. I asked him to put on the power hub, because otherwise he would have never thought, not seeing the need. He struggled with it. I had to explain more or less the role of the equipment. The port validation pointed him to plug the grid supply into the right port, but he then plugged one air cooler to the overflow port, and the other air cooler to the normal out port. He would not have guessed it could accept multiple connections. He did not even see the overflow indication. He had little understanding of behaviours of liquid and gases, and therefore a liquid-vapor separator was not something he would have thought of. He later told me that he would want more animation and more visible feedback, and things that move, pipes that drip, this kind of things. SOmehting to make it more clear what actually happens.
Can you help me analysze this and summarize into our first player test report?